Well, we know that you, brothers and sisters of the 157th class are ready for your assignments.
We know that because every day for five months, you've been focusing on Jehovah.
You've been learning about the meaning of his name, his qualities, his activities,
his word, his wonderful organization.
And these are things that make Jehovah glorious.
They fill us with awe, they impress us.
And because you have focused on Jehovah's glory, your faith has been strengthened, you're
filled with power and determination, so you are ready for your assignments.
But after you get to your assignment, your success will depend on your continuing to
see Jehovah's glory every day.
How can you do that?
Well, let's see by turning in our Bibles to the very first mention of Jehovah's glory.
It's found in Exodus 16 and verse 7.
And you remember the account here, the Israelites were complaining about the apparent lack of food,
and the Moses was told to tell them this in verse 7.
This is in the morning, you will see Jehovah's glory, for he has heard your murmurings
against Jehovah.
Now in the verses that follow, God's glory is associated with his arrangement to provide
mana, and that they would see in the morning.
And consider two ways how that arrangement was evidence of Jehovah's glory.
First how the mana was provided was miraculous.
It showed up every day, except the seventh day, and it didn't matter where in the wilderness
you were or what time of year it was, mana showed up right on time.
And while they had to gather it, clearly this wasn't food that they could produce on
their own.
Second, what mana accomplished was miraculous.
It fed the Israelites for 40 years, and it didn't matter what your activity was, or
your assignment was, they all got the same amount.
Whether you were marching in the wilderness, or you were just staying put in camp, whether
you are Aaron or Moses down to the least Israelite or Egyptian, each one got the same amount
just what they needed.
So each morning that mana appeared, the Israelites were seeing impressive evidence of Jehovah's
glory.
But to benefit, they needed to always recognize that Jehovah knew how to feed them.
He knew what to feed them, and above all that Jehovah was the one feeding them.
Sadly, many failed to make the connection between the mana that they ate every day and Jehovah's
glory.
Now how Jehovah fed the Israelites teaches us lessons about how he feeds us spiritually
today, and the way that he is doing it is far more glorious than anything the Israelites
witnessed in the wilderness.
Consider two ways.
How Jehovah provides spiritual food is evidence of his power.
I mean, just consider the Bible, it's very survival is evidence that Jehovah is behind
this book, and you have been convinced that it truthfully is the Word of God.
The arrangement to provide spiritual food through the faithful slave shows Jehovah's power
and glory.
Now, that slave isn't perfect, they're not inspired, but ever since 1919, that slave has
provided food and do measure at the right time.
Today, virtually all of Jehovah's people receive the same basic spiritual food at the same
time in their own language, all free of charge, and it may seem ordinary to us, but we don't
take it for granted because we make the connection between what's happening and Jehovah's
glory, his power.
A second, what spiritual food accomplishes is evidence of Jehovah's glory.
He's satisfying the needs of over nine million of your brothers and sisters in 240 lands.
No matter our age or circumstances, our race or culture, our nationality or background,
we're all receiving spiritual food at the right time.
And as a result, we're gathered together in a united, loving brotherhood.
We're supporting pure worship.
We're focused on the same thing, preaching the good news of God's kingdom.
Now, what accounts for this?
I mean, after all, we're not the only people that believe that the Bible is God's Word,
who read it and study it.
We're not the only people that produce and distribute religious literature or are very zealous
about what they believe.
But there is nothing that compares with our united brotherhood.
It is the result, not of human effort.
It's a miracle.
It's evidence of Jehovah's power.
And of course, you know all of these things.
You're convinced of these things.
But the example of the Israelites and the manna reminds us of how important it is to
see Jehovah's glory every day in the way that he feeds us spiritually.
How can we do that?
Well, put simply, it's by recognizing what many of the Israelites failed to recognize.
Recognize that Jehovah knows how to feed you spiritually.
Regardless of the responsibilities that await you, do your best to keep the same basic routine
that Jehovah's people around the world follow.
Daily Bible reading, family worship, the meetings, reading the watchtower, watching the
broadcast, you know, like manna, those very basic spiritual provisions are for all of
God's people, regardless of our assignment or our activity.
And that basic routine will ensure that your spirituality keeps pace with your privileges
and responsibilities.
Second, recognize that Jehovah knows what to feed you spiritually.
Now, over time, it may be possible to underestimate the value of what we receive.
After all, maybe the meetings, the magazines, the broadcast covers topics that we're familiar
with.
Maybe it's material that doesn't apply directly to us.
Or maybe the presentation is simple compared to the deeper studies that you're used to.
Well, we need to be careful not to make the same fatal mistake the Israelites made to
become dissatisfied or questioned whether or not what Jehovah was providing would sustain
them.
Remember, Jehovah knew what to feed the Israelites and he knows what to feed his people today.
And all of those things that Jehovah provides are intended to put his word in our heart.
And when that happens, something powerful happens.
In fact, take a look at 1 John 2 verse 14.
Now you remember here the Apostle John was writing different groups in the congregation
verse 14. He writes, fathers, those who are mature, he writes young men, those who are less
experienced.
Notice what he says to the young men at the end of verse 14.
He says, I write you young men because you are strong.
And the word of God remains in you and you have conquered the wicked one.
What an amazing statement they have conquered the wicked one.
That wasn't the result of their willpower.
That was the result of God's power.
His word and their heart.
And that's what Jehovah is doing for his people today.
What Jehovah is feeding us is helping us to remain no part of the world and to maintain
our integrity.
It's that routine that has prepared our brothers and sisters for prison to face natural disasters,
to cope with chronic illness.
Jehovah knows what to feed his people and that feeding program will help you remain spiritually
strong.
And finally, always recognize that it's Jehovah who's feeding you.
You know, keeping that in mind will help you to remain humble regardless of the assignment
or privileges that await you.
And rather than draw attention to yourself or focus on other individuals in the organization,
it will move you to give Jehovah the credit that he deserves, do not make the same mistake
that the Israelites made, do not fail to see Jehovah behind the spiritual food, to see
his glory in the way that he's feeding you.
Never let your words and actions cause you to take the miracle out of the miracle, to
attribute to mere humans what only Jehovah is accomplishing.
Well brothers and sisters, keep doing what you have been doing.
See Jehovah's glory every day and always trust that he knows how to feed you.
He knows what to feed you and always recognize who is feeding you.
Your grand and glorious instructor, Jehovah God.